# HypDynamics
# This is a script that finds and simulates the dynamics of the Cornell Hyperloop drive system suspension. Developed in the MAE 4730: intermediate dynamcis course in Fall 2021, and in summer of 2022. The dynamics of this suspension is in 2D, in the frame of reference of the chassis, and gives useful engineering information for tuning the suspension to meet the track profile requirements.
# To run "main" execute FinalProjectv34730 with Matlab_r2020b or newer. This will start with a schematic of system, and export a gif file showing the time response. 
# The suspension consists of 3 rigid linkages that directly correlate to the linkages on the drive system CAD. Link1 and Link2 were modelled as rigid rods, whereas Link3 was modelled as an isoceles triangle. Each Linkage has a circular dot that represents the center of mass.
# To model the reaction this suspension system would have towards the changing height of a track, a rheonomic constraint was applied as a sine wave with a constant amplitude and frequency. The way in which this suspension reacts to the changing track is first through its wheel, modeled by a Hookean spring that only applies force when in compression. There is a shock absorber, modelled by a spring and damper in parallel, that connects to Link3 and the chassis. 
# The maximal coordinate approach was used to solve this problem, where each body is treated as seperate with all possible degrees of freedom. Angular and linear momentum balances are determined for each body and linkage constraints are defined. This provides a system of governing equations that is solved for a state vector of unknowns. Included in these unknowns are the reaction forces at each hinge point, which provided important information on the thickness of material on our CAD design. 
